all right you expect from a hostage
negotiator from the United States you'll
say something like how you doing
I speak New York to even our group I
grew up in a small town in the Midwest
son of Richard Joyce vaults Mount
Pleasant Iowa about as many people in a
town I grew up in is there in this room
right now so I feel at home right let me
yeah let me play this video first both
carrying on a verbal love affair with
the word hostage listen you do not hold
people hostage or engage in ransom
taking to get a hundred percent of your
way they're trying to hold veterans
hostage to force Obama care of the
American people you cannot negotiate
with a hostage situation we've got a
group of folks who think that they can
hold America hostage the president
somehow wants to keep this hostage
they've taken hostages no person should
be held hostage holding our government
hostage holding the u.s. hostage hold
the entire country hostage hold them
hostage don't hold anyone hostage they
took hostages hostage taking stop taking
hostages they had to take the country
hostage
whether or not it's it's correct to kind
of use the hostage terms of by
politicians when you see this as
somebody who's negotiated a lot when you
see what's going on Washington what
jumps out to you well there's two things
about that you know on a personal note I
like that they use the word because then
it gives me a chance to be on your show
again you know I have not been able to
focus on anything his company is called
the Black Swan group that is the
baddest-ass name I have ever heard
I love that now what is the Black Swan
group that's like the coolest what is
that thank you very much a Black Swan is
something unusual that has a great
impact and we like to think that the way
we negotiate is a great impact yeah
all right all right how often do you get
a chance to make Anderson Cooper laughs
right all right so I will help you be
Black Swan when I hope to learn how to
do the little things tiny little changes
that'll make a huge difference in the
interactions that you have with your
clients with the buyers with the sellers
with everybody little things so the
first question I'd ask is what business
you a what business you in I had heard a
very prominent real estate professional
once say they're in the trust business
thank you guys are in the trust business
what business was a hostage negotiator
in I was in the trust business it's the
same business slightly different
circumstances real estate it'd be easier
right if it wasn't for buyers and
sellers but it's a trust business and I
you know I had had the the pleasure to
listen to several speakers yesterday and
today and one of them that really
brought it to searingly home to me as to
you guys are doing exactly a different
type of negotiation that we did it's
absolutely the same thing all the
circumstances a little bit different so
I'll get to in a minute but I would ask
you to consider this circumstance I was
the FBI's lead international kidnapping
negotiator that meant that I was
responsible to work on a safe return of
any American they got kidnapped overseas
anywhere in the world it's a big world
and there a lot of Americans so what I
was doing we were fairly busy I think
the call one day I'm in Washington DC
twelve-year-old boys been kidnapped in
Haiti now at the time before the
earthquake happened in Haiti a few years
ago the kidnapping industry and Haiti
was thriving and it was it was a
business kidnapping is a commodities
business make no mistake doesn't matter
how we feel about it it's how the other
side looks at things and he had a great
business model in Haiti at the time it
was a really good model kidnappers a
carjacker calls one
person on it you get a car you get a
couple of people you let one of the
people go to scare up or ransom
so they notify people that there been a
kidnapping and you got another person
you got a car the benefits just continue
from there if they have a car they
probably get money to pay a ransom get
off car in Haiti you get some money if
there are any money you got a car so
it's a great business model now what's
happening at the time
is a lot of dual nationals are getting
kidnapped the bad guys do not know that
the gravit American citizens they think
they're grabbing Haitians one of the
great things if you will that I took for
granted that I loved about the United
States where I grew up you're an
American citizen if you're born there
very few places in the world that I like
that it's primarily a Western Hemisphere
American hemisphere function you're not
you're not American by birth in
Australia you have partial birth rights
by being born here but you have to be
born of a citizen it's not it's not
required in America so the advantages of
American citizenship for people from
developing countries are very high so
what's happening at the time is Haitian
mothers knowing that the very best gift
that they can give their child on their
first birthday
is a gift of American citizenship of
finding their way into the United States
one way or another legally illegally so
the child would be born an American
citizen this is why all these Americans
are getting grabbed in kidnappings the
bad guys don't know they're grabbing
Americans so as a twelve-year-old
Haitian boy is kidnapped his father is
not an American citizen but he knows his
son is so he goes to the US Embassy says
my son is an American citizen he's been
kidnapped and your US government he's
supposed to help me and the embassy says
the FBI is going to help you out now I'm
not entirely sure what went through his
mind when they told him that but I think
he probably thought something about 15
minutes later he was going to hear on a
front door and Will Smith and Tommy Lee
Jones would be standing
maybe give them FBI hats just to make
them official right but instead a Will
Smith and Tommy Lee gentleman shot up at
his front door he gets a call about 20
minutes later from some guy named Chris
Wallace in Washington DC and he
literally says to me you're in
Washington DC how you can help me now
how long do you think it is before this
guy hangs up the phone on me maybe five
seconds now I'm kind of been through
this before I've done it wrong before I
showed up in other countries where
they'd never seen me before when I was
supposed to be the FBI expert advised on
negotiation actually if I'm the FBI's
expert on an expert for the United
States government they hadn't seen me
before they didn't care they want to
know my background and I was dumb enough
to tell them what my background was dumb
enough to give him my resume where I've
been trained how many years have been
doing it not just an FBI hostage
negotiator I actually teach if bi
hostage negotiators and when I've done
that in other countries in the past they
were suitably unimpressed might almost
yawn in my face so I already know that
this is a problem when I say this guy is
all right this is a deal Haitian
kidnappers are not killing kidnap
victims why I know that stupid because
they kill each other at the drop of a
hat but they're not killing kidnap
victims today is Thursday and Haitian
kidnappers love the party on Saturday
night so if you do what I tell you to do
we'll have your son out by late Friday
early Saturday morning he said tell me
what you want me to do we had a son out
Saturday morning
now this isn't that much different from
what you're faced with for a variety of
reasons which we'll get into
I would point out to you that he never
asked me how long had been a hostage
negotiator she never asked me how many
kidnappings I worked he never asked me
how many kidnappings in Haiti I wouldn't
he never asked me if I'd ever even been
to Haiti I've never been dead he didn't
ask me if I spoke the local language
Creole you might you might ask yourself
Chris Wallace lead international
kidnapping negotiator supposed to work
kidnappings all over the world how many
languages is this guy speak by now
you've realized the answer to that is
barely one none of those questions
because as soon as I told him exactly
what he was faced with what the
landscape looked like as soon as I
displayed an understanding of what he
was faced with he says tell me what you
want me to do the people that you
interact with don't care what your
resumes are they really don't your
resume correlates loosely with what the
not you can do the job loosely with
whether or not you understand if you
understand the challenges that faced
with nothing else matters the amount of
trust and belief that they have in you
in the trust business ramps up
explanation exponentially notice also
this approach is what we like to call in
many cases the delay to save time notice
I didn't say to them I understand the
market and kidnapping as a market it's a
business the first time I got briefed on
international kidnappings when I was
brought in to become a kidnapping
negotiator I thought they were going to
give me the secret handshake you know in
the secret code words and the man who
became my mentor stood up and said in
every country you'll find out they're
going to have an initial opening demand
and they're going to expect
for a certain percentage of that demand
and they're going to have an expectation
of how long the kidnapping is going to
take and each and every country it's
going to be different but each and every
country is going to have that profile
and I remember thinking to myself this
is a market for human beings I was kind
of blown away by that the first time I
thought about it but it was a market the
commodity was human beings and we had to
learn what the expectations for the
people that we were faced with so we
could navigate that basic negotiation
basic understanding how the other side
looks at it getting out of your own way
what you think of it so you're in the
trust business but take the word trust
out and drop in the word predictability
and then things begin to change because
as soon as you begin to make things more
predictable and understandable for the
people you're dealing with now you begin
to help them in huge ways your clients
buyers and sellers match almost exactly
the psychological profiling reactions of
the family members of a kidnapped
hostage somebody's family member gets
kidnapped their child gets kidnapped and
their hopes and dreams for the future of
been hast taken hostage have been
hijacked when your home is for sale or
you're trying to buy a home these our
hopes and dreams for the future very
same profile you can google the most
stressful events in people's lives and
buying or selling a home especially
selling a home is a very high on that
hit parade and the other interesting
thing about this is a very same as a
kidnapping is when a kidnapping starts
the family doesn't know when it's going
to be over even though I know I can
guess within I know the profile of the
case and I know the country that it's in
I can guess within either week or a
month as to how long it's going to take
I know but they don't know they've been
to this before one of the definitions of
traumatic
us is that it's unrelenting they don't
know when it'll be over your clients
your buyers and sellers they don't know
when this is going to go away they don't
know when it's going to be over and that
is overwhelming for people that's why
they call it traumatic stress in the
kidnapping business we found out that
the families of kidnap victims suffered
traumatic stress at the same rates as
the victims because they didn't know
what it was going to be over so that
being said what are some little things
that you can do to make it easier when
with these guidelines that I'm going to
share with you and I heard some of them
talked about yesterday word-for-word by
some of your top professionals in a room
we didn't have one single family go off
track go in the wrong direction not
follow our guidance when we followed
some of these simple things one of the
things that I told that father when I
spoke to him on the phone since he
doesn't know how long the kidnapping is
going to last for sure even though I've
already given him a time frame and I
know as soon as I hang up the phone with
him that the fear is going to come
rushing back in if he doesn't know the
next time I'm going to call him it's
overwhelming but I tell him I'm going to
call you back in an hour every time that
I spoke to him on the phone I said
you'll have me back on a phone in an
hour the father if he doesn't know how
many days it's going to be he's going to
be scared to death but if he knows he's
only got to last for an hour he can hang
in there for an hour
I heard Super Mom yesterday talking
about calling her clients three times a
week no matter what that's phenomenal
advice because if you've got a client
that doesn't know when it's going to go
through they're sitting there waiting
for the phone to ring not knowing when
it's going to ring the unknown is a huge
stressor here's how bad of a stressor
the unknown is before I became a hostage
negotiator I was a member FDIC what and
I tried out for the bureau's version
of the Navy SEALs and the FBI has
something called a hostage rescue team
when I tried out for them their maximum
psychological stressor for us to try to
get us to break was simply the unknown
they take us for a run and we'd want to
know how far we were going to go so we
know how fast to run if I know I'm going
to run for an hour if I'm going to run
for five miles I know how fast to run
and they take us for a run and they just
say start running we're done when we're
done now every single time they took us
for a run it was for about 45 minutes
but they take you out on a run and if
you know you're going to go 45 minutes I
can run seven minute miles if you run a
lot you know exactly how fast you run
you can pace yourself if you don't know
it's supposed to stress you out
especially if they're trying to run you
into the ground the unknown if that's
the maximum stressor for Special Forces
around a planet imagine what the unknown
is a stressor for your clients is and I
mentioned how far you can go instantly
if they know they're going to hear from
you three times a week no matter what
you have just now stepped up your game
in terms of being in the trust business
because you're adding predictability to
it they trust you more they give you
more latitude good thing I love that I
heard the supermom said yesterday to
which we did and I had to learn this the
hard way when we're in the midst of a
kidnapping that we know it's going to
last months weeks and many of them did
some of them last years I would coach
all of my negotiators if you got nothing
to tell the family call him up and tell
him you got nothing bring them on the
phone they know they're going to hear
from you every couple days call him on
the phone and say look I just want you
to know there's nothing new and if
families would love that I learned that
the hard way because there was a
Department of State citizen services guy
who was doing far better with the
families and we were on the
international kidnapping so I finally
said you know what they'd love you what
are you doing since I call them every
couple days and if I got nothing new I
tell them I got nothing new they love it
because it adds predictability and
stability and they can now they can cope
with the uncertainty
Super Mom yesterday said you know what
if I got if I got no showings if I get
nobody's coming to see the house I call
them and I can I say look nobody's been
in to see the house and your gut
instinct is going to be on it's going to
make me look stupid it's going to make
me look like I'm not doing anything that
is not what it does it makes you look
like you're watching out for them it
helps in a way that they don't even
understand you are now helping to
mitigate that stress for them now the
other thing this is also which was I
really wanted you to get the distinction
in this this is not call him on the
phone and saying how you doing how you
doing
stop call him on the phone then how are
you and I can remember one time one of
my negotiators in the Cincinnati
division and we work in a case that had
ended up all hostages ended up getting
killed by friendly fire 16th anniversary
that was just two days ago but we had
sister in the Cincinnati area and I
heard about this this young lady this
woman the entire time because everybody
was scared of her when I finally met her
in person I was blown away because she
was a buoyant positive upbeat kinda like
young pixie woman and I was like this is
a girl that everybody's scared of
because she didn't take nonsense she was
a no-nonsense kind of person so my
negotiator says you know I'm call I'm
tired of calling her on the phone and
asking her how she's doing and having
her bite my head off
and I said tomorrow are you kidding me
how do you not know how she's doing this
sister's been held hostage by terrorists
how are you doing - silly question I
told you to call her and tell her you
got nothing new it'll take you three
seconds but he felt that made him look
stupid
he's supposed to be FBI supposed to have
all the answers
you know what computers we get
satellites I can't call them and tell
them there's nothing new believe me the
distance that that will go to help
people relax while their child their
home their hopes and dreams for the
future is on the line in your hands you
want to think they normal professional
they see my marketing materials I know
the velocity of how
how the market goes and those are
pitfalls touch base with them regularly
and just give them simple updates and
you'll be amazed at how far it will go
and don't don't start by saying how you
doing maybe you inquire about how they
are after you've given them the
information there's another really small
trick also to communication people don't
remember things how they happened people
remember them by the most intense moment
and how it ended
if you move your genuine inquiry to how
they are personally from the beginning
of the call to the end of the call then
every single ending interaction that you
have with your clients the last
impression is the lasting impression
the last impression is you genuinely
inquiring as to how they are calling
first deliver the information whether it
be good or bad and I'll give you another
clue on delivering bad information in a
moment and then make that genuine honest
inquiry that you have about who they are
as human beings for the end the last
impression is a lasting impression that
is what they will remember and that's
what they carry forward to the next call
that's a rule that covers all aspects of
negotiation we learn this in different
hostage takings and kidnappings because
people are so concerned about first
impressions they very rarely focused on
last impressions the last impression is
the last impression control your last
impressions find a way then positively
no matter what because that is what
lingers in people's minds you've got bad
news call them on the phone and say I've
got bad news bang and then hit them with
it
kind of
telling someone that you've got bad news
is like brace yourself they brace
yourselves and then the punch so the
kidnapping that I refer to where people
died when I got I got a call the
negotiator to call me since I've got bad
news
Martin is dead and he gave me just
enough time to brace myself so I
wouldn't get caught off guard and I
spent the rest of the day making my
phone calls exactly like that I was so
appreciative of being given the bad news
that quickly you're going to want to say
I've got bad news I want you to react
negatively I'm sorry I don't want you to
feel bad you can say a whole bunch of
things give him a warning
brace yourself it's coming and bang hit
them and they will appreciate that and
in this is how we're going to deal with
you've got an issue where something has
gone wrong with a purchase or sale of a
house I get bad news this happened this
is how we're going to deal with it they
will love you for that they know things
are going to go wrong they don't expect
perfection but they want to be able to
rely on you and you begin to put things
in context for them and that's when your
expertise as a real estate professional
really begins to shine all the reasons
why they hired you in the first place
because there's your knowledge of the
market and demonstrating how you're
going to deal with glitches because
regardless of the market you guys know
their problems
you know meteors are coming this is how
you handle it an emotionally intelligent
way so was this guy is this guy crazy
see hi
what's this American smoking what's
wrong with yes that was what they you
know why is yes wrong it was a chapter
that sold my book to my publisher was
initially yes is the last thing you want
to hear and yes has been described this
most beautiful word in English language
to be how could it be the last thing we
want to hear and the most famous
negotiating book in the world is getting
to yes right and even doctor shall Dini
who was here yesterday he's got a book
called fifty scientifically proven ways
to get to yes which I bought because
it's like 50 ways to leave your lover
writes fifty scientifically proven ways
to get the yes I want those fifty ways
because we love yes
it's an interesting story supposedly
when John Lennon first began to fall in
love with Yoko Ono
he went to this art exhibit that she put
together was like this obstacle course
art exhibit where he climbed over stuff
and he crawled under stuff and then
you've got to this rickety ladder and
you climb the ladder and at the top was
a telescope and you look through the
telescope and far letters on the farm
and small letters on a far wall with the
words yes let me ask you something
fuller pick up the phone at the voices
have you got a few minutes to talk would
initially what's your initial reaction
tighten up a few minutes to talk five
fifteen minutes to talk to I want to
talk to you I have a few minutes to talk
and I want to talk to you do I want to
talk about what you want to talk about
you know there's not a man on the planet
that hasn't got a call for the most
important person in the world he picks
up the phone she says can we talk and he
thinks well I know I like talking to you
but somehow I don't think I want to talk
about what you want to talk about after
that how long is a few minutes I gotta I
got an attorney colleague he gets this
long agenda he calls me on the phone and
says have you got a few minutes to talk
it's 45 every time right and finally how
I get off the phone now what's the
problem with that all these things are
going through somebody's mind if they've
said yeah yes okay go ahead
but all these things are going through
their mind they're not paying attention
that's the first problem the second
problem is nobody ever asks you to say
yes to anything unless it's going
someplace
would you like to make more money would
you like to be more successful would you
like to have more free time buy my book
nobody ever asks you yes unless it's
going someplace ever and experiment with
this a little bit because you cannot get
a straight flat yes out of anybody my
son and I were talking about this the
other day we walked up to a guy but he
was a security guard in the building
that were in he had the name of his
guard company on his on his uniform
allied security so he walk up and we'll
get handed on my identification on the
way out and I look at him and I said do
you work for allied security he goes
well yeah couldn't give me a straight
yes people can't say yes
straight out because people are worried
about what it's going to let them to let
them in for because yes is always
leading in them into a trap
always always always always stood in
mine at
USC's going on a honeymoon and a resort
offseason and they're offering discounts
in a regular rooms off-season but not
the bungalows
he knows the bungalows are empty he
wants to negotiate but they're not
offering discounting he wants a discount
on a bungalow he gets the manager on a
phone and he says it's the offseason
right simply trying to confirmed an
innocent fact but his manager knows it's
going someplace everybody does this
experiment with it stop this weekend
there tonight
next time you had a shopping mall go to
your favorite store
what so what's this sister I know you
guys don't have do you guys have nord
since you have no chance here go to your
favorite store in the mall
stand outside I was a there was a
Woolworths over here in a shopping
center sorry stand outside Wars stop
people just before they're going in say
tonight shopping at Wallace I bet they
don't go in I bet if you do that long
enough they call the police on you so
it's a problem but we love the hint but
we're driving for we don't know how how
nervous we make other people and the
interesting thing was when I was working
on my book one of the writers that I
work with said as a hostage negotiator
Chris how'd you get hostage takers to
say yes the only question ever asked me
to completely stumped me and just went
completely sigh and I said we didn't
it's useless
not one single hostage negotiation
technique designed to get somebody to
say yes not one I will tell you as an
aside note also the hostage negotiation
teams in Australia and the United States
and Hong Kong in a Cape Town South
Africa and Tokyo Japan and Bogota
Colombia all used the same skills the
exact same skills because they work on
human beings and that's a universal
component before we were any ethnicity
before we were even gender we were human
beings and these skills work on human
banks so instead of getting to say yes
this is only want to get people to say
that's right that's right as what you
say when you hear something is a
complete truth that's right is when you
feel connected to somebody now I would
point out that that's not that's right
is not the same as your right
you're right is a problem you're right
is the biggest fake agreement there is
your right is when somebody you're
working with is hounding you about
something that you don't want to do and
you and they won't leave you alone they
won't listen to you so you look them in
the eye and you say you're right and you
get the big smile and they walk away and
they leave you alone and they come back
the next day and they start in on you
again and you go you're right and they
leave again so we tell people that we
want to maintain a relationship with we
like them or we have to maintain the
relationship we just wanted to shut up
and go away it's code for please shut up
but that's right on the other hand is
huge let me introduce you to a friend of
mine American kidnapped in the
Philippines another Philippines story
he's got himself in the hands of this
guy ed to the bone straight out of the
movies sociopathic rape and murder and
headshop and terrorist this guy was
always photographed if you're terrorists
you like the media that's why you're in
the tourism business you want attention
couldn't get attention as a kid this is
one way to get attention as an adult he
always had the same outfit on sunglasses
black bandana black t-shirt camo pants
45 on the side thought it made him look
dashing big ego guy he's got our
American I am coaching this guy and the
international is a leading international
kidnapper negotiator for the FBI what it
really was was an international
negotiation coach that's how I didn't
need to speak the language
I know negotiations I know human
dynamics I just need to find somebody
that's coachable
this guy's coachable he was a superstar
he also happened to be the head of their
special action force Asaf their version
of Navy
very smart guy understood how to learn
took the coaching but make no mistake my
negotiator wanted to kill my killer and
he had a little bit of trouble sort of
reconciling second to this nice approach
his tactical empathy approach so much so
that we're working together late one
night and he's kind of getting it but
he's not quite embracing it entirely
because he wants to kill our bad guy and
we're sitting in on coaching him when I
see his smile come over his face a bad
guy's name is sabayon and my guys bendji
and I look at Benjy and I say I realize
I gotta getta that's right out of Benjy
they say you hates the bite don't you he
says I tell you I do he's murdered and
he's raped he's cut the heads off of
innocent people why they couldn't do
anything about it he's come on all
radios while we were bombing his
position and said these mortars or music
to my ears in the only way that he can
do that is if he's standing over the
body of one of my colleagues I hate him
and with that I saw Benjy center himself
and really fall into line and he was
ready to follow the direction that I was
giving him now this entire kidnapping
while this is going on the demand for
American is 10 million dollars but it's
not a ransom demand because our killer
is smarter than that he wants 10 million
dollars in war damages for 500 years of
oppression from the Spanish to the
Japanese to the American city atrocities
committed by the American general
blackjack Pershing to the violation of
the fishing rights to the economic harm
from over 500 years for free colonial
oppressors you might ask yourself wow
those things may have happened what does
that have to do with our American
doesn't matter
were you ever in an interaction where
somebody was throwing tons of reasons
for what they wanted at you that made no
sense kind of nature of human beings so
we're going back and forth and we can't
get this 10 million dollars
reduced off the table anything and one
day I said we're going to press the
reset button here you're going to get
sub aya our killer you're going to get
him to say that's right that your one
goal of next conversation you're going
to summarize all this nonsense what he
said and how he feels about it that's
the hard part for everybody you want to
take the facts and put your spin on them
we're going to go with their spin what
they say about it you're going to talk
about the five hundred years of
oppression the injustice is the economic
harm and you're going to keep talking
and tell sabai has no choice but to say
that's right two days later my
negotiator get the killer on the phone
and says you're not after ransom for
Jeffrey Schilling you're after war
damages because of the economic harm for
five hundred years of oppression the
Spanish the Japanese to the American
city atrocities committed by the
American imperialist invaders the
injustice of it all the violation the
economic harm and he goes on and on and
on and on and they go silent and
subbaiah goes silent and he says that's
right they sit in silence for a moment
my guy citizens talk again in a couple
of days hang up the phone
we go from ten million dollars to zero
in that conversation that was the last
time they ever mentioned money the
entire duration of the kidnapping
kidnapping lasts a couple more months it
has some ups and downs they try to get
some other intermediaries involved
finally the American walks away he walks
away on Monday Thursday the Thursday
before Easter the America the Philippine
military finds out that he's not walking
around loosing to South affiliates they
fly down they pick him up
they learn about the Philippine military
claims that they rescued him in a daring
rescue operation shot all these
terrorists wounded them they crawl off
into the jungle and died that's why we
don't have any bodies and show you
flew Jeffry out of there I'm back in the
Philippines about three weeks later on a
Nora kidnapping I catch up with my guy
Benji he says you're not going to
believe who called me on the phone
I don't know conjure sabai somebody
still got my guys undercover cellphone
knows and buddy's undercover name
figures he had to have been either with
the police of the military just because
he's not stupid that's the only way
somebody would be talking to had to be
from the government so by calls Benji on
the phone and says have you been
promoted I have no idea what it was that
you said to me on the phone I was going
to kill the American he kept me from
doing it they should promote you he high
on you guys ever see that Billy Crystal
Robert De Niro movie analyzes there goes
you you got against you you're good you
that's what's abaya was saying the
terrorists the killer is saying to my
negotiator that has beaten him in every
single way this terrorists got nothing
his entire organization ended up in a
shambles
he actually ultimately ended up losing
his job as a terrorist negotiator and
he's still respected them enough that's
the way you want to leave people at all
times that's the key to an includes an
ongoing and steady stream of referrals a
steady diet of referrals not always
prospecting for new clients if you leave
people saying that's right with you a
connection that they feel with you if a
killer sociopath can feel that connected
and not much respect to a government
negotiator
imagine how much negativity that kind of
connection overcomes in other traumatic
instances such as people by you helping
them buying and selling their
and dreams and a vision for a future
they will not expect everything to go
their way
but a solid connection with them on a
regular basis makes a big difference
this is an old advice Carl Rogers was a
guy who was just a psychologist in the
70s in the US and he started he sort of
brought this comp concept of empathy
back to us one of the things that I was
kind of loved about using Carl Rogers is
empathy and kidnappings was because you
know I've googled him a couple of times
I think his middle name was actually
ransom I could figure know this nice guy
if he knew that I was beaten terrorists
with what he taught you know I don't
know if he'd be happy or sad about it
but this is also the steven covey advice
seek first to understand then be
understood come he told us to do this
but we didn't really know exactly how to
do it most people want to look at
somebody and say I understand and think
that the other person feels understood
when the other person looks at you in
the eye and says that's right that's
when they feel understood that's when
the bond between the two of you have
been established that's when the other
person is looking at you and saying I
feel empathy from you and now I feel
connected to you I took I took this
training and I get brought into an oil
company he said we need to we need
business negotiation but I can't pay for
that because what was security and the
other executives in the country and the
company don't want us being negotiating
against them so give us some kidnap
negotiation training go to work in
business interactions what do you got I
said I got that's right let me come down
teach it to you to be perfect I taught
it to him improve I'm back in in Houston
a few months later one of the guys in a
pro training comes up to me says Kevin I
couldn't wait to tell you after the
training I was on the phone with my
ex-girlfriend
she got oh that's right out of me I was
good with it when it happened I'm still
good with it
that's how you want to leave people in
your interactions you want them to feel
connected to you they're not going to
expect to get everything but they are
going to expect for you to look out for
them and treat them as if you're
connected to them you back up work on
this this is going to be a little bit of
a difficult habit to break getting out
of the yes habit you have a yes
addiction to give you an idea of how
tricky it can be to break the ester
diction because this isn't complicated
make it fist with these are hand put
your right thumb up put your left
forefinger out now switch switch back
switch speed up quicker clear
quicker if I had to do that where you
were standing some of you would almost
have fallen over was that complicated
well it was awkward your brain is not
used to doing that your brain can get
used to doing it without with a little
bit of practice but initially that's the
greatest barrier to learning the initial
awkwardness you're going to feel
ridiculously awkward getting away from
your yes addiction you use yes to be
respectful to you just to be
appreciative you have a lot of great
reasons for using yes but unfortunately
so many other people are trapping
everyone else with yes that most of
humanity is reacting like battered
children you try to hug a battered child
they're still going to duck even though
you meant to hug them wasn't your fault
but it's still the syndrome that
everybody is dealing with so if you want
to know more and only if you'd like to
know more I can promise you if you just
move that's right into your interactions
and yes out you're going to make an
exponential leap forward you're going to
be delighted at the number of deals that
you will make when you were getting
ready to give in that in and of itself
sold my entire book there's more there
if you want it only if you want it we
also have a newsletter that's free of a
no call a colleague of mine used to like
to say if it's free I'll take three but
I want to help you get better you can
move your businesses forward slight to
millimeter changes alright now I would
ask all of you to stand up please
remember I told you before about Will
Smith and Tommy Lee Jones the men in
black they actually worked for me and a
little red flashy thing they got on our
cell phones now everybody look up here
alright stay there you are now all black
swans you appreciate that you are
helping people in some of the most
stressful moments of their lives when
their hopes and dreams for the future on
the line you will guide them through
that and continue to build your
businesses as a trusted advisor enjoy
the rest of the conference
[Applause]